Legal framework
===============

## Liability

Although every care has been taken by the Federal Office of Topography swisstopo to ensure the accuracy of the information published, no guarantee can be given with regard to the accurate, reliable, up-to-date or complete nature of this information.

swisstopo reserves the right to alter or remove the content, in full or in part, without prior notice.

Liability claims against swisstopo for material or immaterial damage resulting from access to or use or non-use of the published information, from misuse of the connection or from technical faults are excluded.

## Links

Links to third party websites fall outside the scope of responsibility of swisstopo. Access and use of such websites take place entirely at the user’s own risk. swisstopo expressly declares that it has no influence whatsoever over the content of any linked site. Responsibility for the information and services of linked sites rests entirely with the relevant third parties.

No liability can be accepted with regard to the content of such websites.

## Copyright

The information contained on swisstopo's websites is made available to the public.  Downloading or copying of texts, illustrations, photos or any other data does not entail any transfer of rights with regard to the content.

Copyright and any other rights relating to texts, illustrations, photos or any other data available on the websites of swisstopo are the exclusive property of swisstopo or of any other expressly mentioned owners. Any reproduction requires the prior written consent of the copyright holder.

## Data protection
### Legal basis
The handling of personal data at swisstopo is regulated by the Federal Act on Data Protection (DSG, SR 235.1) and the Ordinance to the Federal Act on Data Protection (VDSG, SR 235.11).

### Right to information, halt to processing and deletion
The right of access to information in accordance with Articles 8 and 9 of the Federal Act on Data Protection (DSG) gives every individual, irrespective of his or her place of residence and nationality, the right to ask swisstopo whether data on him or her is being processed. The right of access to information is the means by which data subjects can check the processing of their data and request any necessary correction. You may also request a halt to processing or the deletion of your data at any time.

Please contact swisstopo’s data protection advisor to exercise your right to access information, halt processing or delete your data.

### Information automatically stored when you visit our websites
When you access our websites, the following data is stored in log files: IP address (i.e. the unique address that identifies your computer on the Internet), date, time, browser request and generally transmitted information on the operating system or the browser. In accordance with the Federal Act on the Surveillance of Postal and Telecommunications Traffic (SPTA), there is a statutory storage obligation for connection data from the previous six months.

We use previously anonymised IP addresses to help administer the website and to gather general demographic information for aggregate use.

This usage data forms the basis for statistical, anonymous evaluations that enable us to identify trends, which we use to improve our offer accordingly.

If you order products or subscribe to a newsletter via our websites, your e-mail address is stored separately and not linked to the anonymous log files. You can cancel your registration at any time by sending a corresponding e-mail to swisstopo’s data protection advisor.

### Use of cookies
We use cookies on a variety of our web pages in order to make your visit to our website more appealing and to facilitate the use of certain functions. Cookies are small text files that are stored on your computer. The majority of the cookies we use are deleted from your hard disk when you close your browser session (session cookies), while certain others remain on your computer and enable us to recognise you when you visit our website again (permanent cookies).

You can block or restrict the storage and reading of cookies in your browser. Please note that by doing so you will no longer be able to use certain functions on our website.

### Analysis services
If you have given your consent, the Google Analytics, Hotjar and Sentry web analysis services of Google Ireland Limited (“Google”), Hotjar.com and Sentry.io are used on this website. This makes it possible to assign data, sessions and interactions across multiple devices to a pseudonymous user ID and thus analyse a user's activities across devices.

These analysis services use “cookies” to help the website analyse how you interact with the site. The information generated by the cookie about your use of this website is usually transferred to a server belonging to one of the aforementioned providers and stored there. We would like to point out that, on this website, the analysis services have been extended to include IP anonymisation in order to ensure anonymous collection of IP addresses (so-called IP masking). The IP address transmitted by your browser in the context of the analysis service is not merged with other data belonging to the providers. For more information on terms of use and data protection, please visit

<https://www.google.com/analytics/terms/gb.html> or <https://policies.google.com/?hl=en>.

[Hotjar - Privacy Policy](https://www.hotjar.com/legal/policies/privacy/)

<https://sentry.io/privacy/>

### Purposes of the Processing
On behalf of swisstopo, the aforementioned providers will use this information to evaluate your use of the website, to compile reports on website activity and to provide swisstopo with other services related to website and Internet use.

### Recipients or Categories of Recipients
The recipients of the collected data are the operators of the aforementioned analysis services, on behalf of swisstopo.

### Duration of Data Storage
The data sent by us and linked to cookies, user-identifiers (e.g. user IDs) or advertising identifiers are automatically deleted after 14 months. Data for which the retention period has been reached is automatically deleted once a month.

### Rights of the Persons affected
You can also prevent Google from collecting the data generated by the cookie and relating to your use of the website (including your IP address) and from processing this data by Google by downloading and installing the [Browser Add-on](https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=gb).  Opt-out cookies will prevent future collection of your data when you visit this website. To prevent Universal Analytics from collecting data across different devices, you must opt-out on all systems used. If you click here, the opt-out cookie will be set: [Disable Google Analytics](https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=gb).

You can revoke your consent at any time with effect for the future by blocking the storage of cookies by setting your browser software accordingly. Please note that by doing so, you will no longer be able to use certain functions on our website.

Source: the text in the “Google Analytics” section was kindly provided by <https://www.datenschutzbeauftragter-info.de/> and adapted for the swisstopo website.

## What personal data do we collect and for what purpose?
### geocat. ch (geospatial metadata)
geocat.ch is the metadata catalogue for geodata in Switzerland, i.e. the application for administering and publishing geospatial metadata in accordance with standard GM03 (Swiss standard SN 612050). At least one contact point is defined for each geospatial metadata set.

geocat. ch contains the following publicly available data:
a.	Last name and first name
b.	Name and abbreviation of the organisation
c.	E-mail address and telephone number of the person or organisation
d.	Address of the organisation (house number, street, postal code, town, etc.)

## Further information
### Non-disclosure of personal data
Any other use of your personal information, in particular its sale, disclosure or dissemination to third parties, is explicitly excluded.

### Security
swisstopo uses the latest technologies to protect personal data from unauthorised access and improper use.

### Data protection advice
The data protection advisor at swisstopo is the contact person for your enquiries relating to data protection and the right to information at swisstopo.

We will be pleased to receive your questions or comments of any kind; please send an e-mail to:

**Federal Office of Topography swisstopo**  
Data protection advisor  
Seftigenstrasse 264  
P.O. Box  
3084 Wabern

E-mail <privacyPolicy@swisstopo.ch>

